【 文献号 】1-1745
【原文出处】中小学外语教学
【原刊地名】京
【原刊期号】199505
【原刊页号】14-17
【分 类 号】G38
【分 类 名】中学外语及其他各科教学
【 作  者 】段春英/王英民
【复印期号】199503
【 标  题 】高中写作练习十六则
【 正  文 】
    为了配合教师期末对学生进行书面表达的训练，我们编写了以下１６组练习。编写的指导思想是：１）书面表达是交际的一种形式，要体
现交际或用英语解决实际问题；２）尽可能贴近学生的生活和学生使用英语的场合；３）根据学生现有水平，结合学生学过的句型、单词、词
组。希望通过这些练习使学生在书面表达方面有所提高。
    １）某日，你校来一外国参观团，你与部分同学参加了与外宾的座谈会。请按提示回答外宾提出的问题。
            一、英语的重要性
    １．在世界上广泛应用；
    ２．可学习先进国家的科学技术；
    ３．介绍中国及其所取得的成就；
    ４．是必修课。
            二、如何学好英语
    １．学习努力，并尽可能应用；
    ２．经常听广播，读英文报；
    ３．每天至少花４０分钟。
    参考词汇：必修课required subject;
              借助于with the help of
    English is very important.It is widely used all over the world.With the help of English we can learn modern science and 
technology from the developed countries and introduce China as well as its achievements to the world.Besides,it is a require
d subject in high schools and college.
    Because of its importance,I work hard at it and try to use it whenever I can.I listen to the English on the radio and re
ad English newspapers very often.I spend at least 40 minutes on it every day.I have improved my English rapidly.
    ２）外籍教师过生日，你班送去了生日蛋糕，你代表全班同学在晚会上讲话。讲话内容如下：
    １．他教学很出色，你们受益匪浅，同学们都喜欢他。
    ２．希望他能久留，与你们在一起愉快生活。
    参考词汇：代表on behalf of
    On behalf of our class,I would like to say“Happy Birthday”to you.We all like you,because you have done a good job in t
eaching andwe have all benefited from your teaching.We all wish you could stayhere longer and have fun with us.Here is the b
irthday cake our classbrought for you.We hope you will enjoy it.That's all.     Thank you.
    ３）英语阅览室将开门，请你代写一张通知，欢迎大家来借阅并通知以下几件事：
    １．阅览室新进Common Mistakes in English,English Readings,the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English和一些英文小说，
欢迎大家借阅。
    ２．英语墙报将开设新版面（edition），题目是“Reading Good Books”欢迎大家写文章或读书报告。
    ３．上学期借书未还的同学请办理续借或还书手续，否则，将不准使用本阅览室。
                            Announcement
    １．We have bought some new books such as Common Mistakes in English,English Readings,the Longman Dictionary of Contempo
rary Englishand some English novels which you are welcome to borrow any time.
    ２．English wall-newspaper will have a new edition,the title is“Reading Good Books”.Please send your articles and read
ing reports to us.
    ３．Finally,those of you who borrowed books from here last termshould either return the books or renew them,or else you 
can't use the reading-room.The English reading-room is now ready to open.We hope you all enjoyreading and studying there.
    ４）假设你参加学校组织的英语演讲比赛，你演讲的题目是“Sports andGames”。下面是你演讲的部分内容：
    现在世界上越来越多的人对体育运动感兴趣。在我国，足球、排球、篮球、乒乓球等都是大家喜爱的体育运动。每天清晨或傍晚，你都会
看到人们在公园或空地上参加各种体育锻炼或跳舞。
    每人都知道体育运动有利于健康，并能培养性格，把工作做得更好。让我们都来参加体育运动吧。
    In the world today,more and more people show great interest in sports and games.In our country,football,volleyball,baske
tball,tabletennis,swimming and running are favourite sports and games.Early inthe morning or in the evening,in parks and ope
n grounds,a lot of people,men and women,old and young,are doing all kinds of exercises ordancing to music.
    Everyone knows that sports and games are of great importance.Sports and games can be good for people's health,train peop
le's characters and help them to do their work better.
    Let's go in for sports and games.
    ５）假设你校办了英语专刊（English journal）并请你写一篇浅显易懂的短文，说明英语的重要性。提示如下：
    １．许多人现在都在努力学习英语。英语是世界上使用最广泛的语言，大多数商业信件都是用英语写的。
    ２．学好英语可使我们更好地学习外国的先进经验（advanced experience）。
    ３．学好英语能使我们更好地为祖国服务。
    ４．学习英语有时也是一大趣事。
    Now many people are working hard at English.In fact,English is very important to us.First,English is widely used in the 
world and most business letters are written in English.Again,if we grasp English,we can learn a lot from the advanced experi
ence of other countries.If we learn English well,we can serve our motherland better.And,sometimes,learning English is also a
 great fun.
    ６）遗失启示（Lost）  高三（２）班学生李维，于本月１０日下午在学校阅览室丢失书包一个，内有三本英语书和一本旧字典。拾到者
请交给图书管理员或李维本人。失主宿舍在宿舍楼２层２０６室。
    I was careless and lost my school bag in the reading-room of ourschool.There were three English books and an old English
 dictionaryinside.Will the finder please send it either to the assistant or tomyself?Many thanks to the finder.My bedroom is
 in Room 206,on the second floor of our dormitory.
                                                       loser Liwei
    ７）学习公约（Study Pact）  为了提高学习成绩，掌握各门学科的知识，用优异的成绩向人民汇报，我们高三（３）班全体同学经过讨
论，特制订以下公约：
    １．上课不迟到，不早退，有事请假；
    ２．课前做好一切准备，上课认真听讲，做好笔记；
    ３．刻苦钻研，不要不懂装懂，有问题主动问老师；
    ４．自习课保持安静，认真复习当天讲过的内容；
    ５．互相帮助，互相学习，共同进步。
                             Study Pact
    To improve our study,to master knowledge in every subject,and toreport to the people with excellent marks we,students of
 Class 3 Senior 3,after a serious discussion,have worked out the following studypact:
    １．Don't be late,don't leave school early.Ask for leave on busi
        ness.
    ２．Prepare everything before class,listen to the teacher carefu
        lly in class and take notes.
    ３．Study intensively,don't pretend to know all,and ask the teac
        hers questions.
    ４．Keep quiet during time for individual study and go over the
        materials taught by the teachers.
    ５．Help each other,learn from each other and make progress side
        by side.
                                                    Class 3 Senior 3
    ８）说明：你去新加坡参观访问，新加坡朋友举行了一个欢送会，你用英语致答词，答词需包括下列内容：
    １．对主人热情邀请你参加集会表示感谢；
    ２．多年来一直想访问贵国，今天如愿以偿；
    ３．很荣幸能有机会访问贵国并遇到如此多的友好人士；
    ４．深信此次访问一定丰富多彩，并希望在这期间能多向各位请教。
    Ladies and gentlemen,
    First of all,allow me to thank you for your kind invitation to attend this gathering.It has been a long cherished hope o
f mine to visit your country.I am very fortunate to have had such a nice chancetoday.
    I feel specially honoured to be given this opportunity to meet so many distinguished people like you.I am sure my stay h
ere will bea fruitful and enjoyable one.I do hope to see more of you while I amhere.
    Thank you!
    ９）下面是某外语系主任王力邀请史密斯教授去该校讲学的邀请信。若你是史密斯教授，收阅来信后，请按下面要求写封回信：
    １．婉言谢绝邀请；
    ２．简单告知原因（自己设想）。
    Dear Prof.Smith,
    It has been said that you gave an excellent lecture at Xiangta University last month on Modern English-American Literatu
re,and I askyou to give the same lecture to the students in our college.We should like to hear your views on the subject.If 
you would rather chooseanother topic in the field of Linguistics,we would be equally interested.
    Possible dates would be Monday,March 31st,or Monday,April 7th,but if neither of these is suitable,perhaps you could sugg
est a convenient date in May.If you find this invitation acceptable,please let me  know the date and time when you would lik
e to come,and of coursewe'll send a car to pick you up from your hotel.
    I know how busy you must be with your work,but I do hope you will be able to spare time to come and talk to us.
                                             Yours Sincerely,
                                                           Wang Li
    Dear Mr Wang Li,
    I was glad to get your letter.Thank you for your invitation.I would like to visit your beautiful college,but I'm afraid 
I cannot.I have been inveted to give a talk at Beijing University on March 28th.And I will go to India on business on April 
3rd.The next month,I amreturning to London.I am really very sorry to lose this opportunityto meet you and the students of yo
ur university.
                                                Yours Sincerely,
                                                             Smith
    １０）学生会（Students'Union）要举办英语演讲比赛（English-speaking Contest），请按下列要求写一个通知。
    １．目的：提高学生的英语口语水平。
    ２．组织者：校学生会。
    ３．参加范围：高三学生。
    ４．报名（sign up）时间与地点：９月２０日以前，学生会办公室。
    ５．比赛时间与地点：９月３０日晚７点，学校礼堂（auditorium）。五位英语老师被邀当评委，前五名优胜者将获奖。
    注意：写成意思连贯、语句通顺的短文，不要写成条文形式。
                                      Notice
                                                      3,25th 1995
    In order to improve the students'oral English,an English-speaking contest(among the students of Senior Grade 3)will be h
eld in the school auditorium at seven o'clock p.m. on September 30th,1995.The contest is organized by the Students'Union.Tho
se who would like to take part may sign up in the Students'Union Office before September 20th.Five English teachers will be 
invited to work as judges.The firstfive winners will be given rewards.All are welcome to join in the contest.
                                          The School Students'Union
    １１）按以下说明写一则日记。注意日记格式，可补充你认为必要的东西，但日记必须包括以下内容。
    假定今天是４月３０日，星期六，天气晴朗。晚饭后你和几位同学出去散步，碰巧遇见几位外国友人，你对他们打招呼说：“Good night
!”。他们笑着回答：“Good evening!”。
    回校的路上，你感到奇怪。他们为什么晚上见面不说“Good night!”？回校后，你马上去问了你的英语老师，才发现你说错了。
    April 30,Saturday                                   Fine
    After supper,some classmates and I went out for a walk.We happened to meet several foreign guests at the gate of the par
k.I went upto them and said,“Good night!”,they smiled and said“Good evening!”to us.
    On the way back to school,I wondered why they didn't say“Good night!”when we met,but I couldn't get the answer.So I we
nt to ask myEnglish teacher for help at once.The teacher explained it clearly and of course I was wrong.
    １２）假如你在友谊商店工作。英国朋友Mishel来你店选购收录机。
    请根据提示，用英语向Miss Mishel介绍最新产品（product）“金星牌”收录机。内容要点如下：
    １．金星牌收录机是兰陵录音机厂的最新产品。该厂已有４０年生产录音机的历史。
    ２．金星牌收录机由该厂经十多年研制而成的先进电脑控制，使用简便。
    ３．该收录机的机身由轻金属制成，便于携带。
    ４．价格比美国收录机便宜。选用金星牌收录机为最价值选择。
    The Gold-Star recorder is the lastest product of Lanling Recorder Factory.The factory has a 40 years history of making r
ecorders.TheGold-Star recorder is controlled by advanced computer,the latest technical advance from the factory's ten-year r
esearch.The body of therecorder is made of light metal.So the recorder is not only comfortable to hold but easy to operate a
s well.Anyone who owns a Gold-Starrecorder will enjoy it very much.Its price is still lower than thatof the American product
.It's certainly a wise choice to buy a good recorder like the Gold-Star.
    １３）按下列提示写一张病假条。
    你昨天与几个同学去游泳，今天早上感到头痛。母亲给你量了体温，发现你发烧了，便带你去看病。医生说你得了重感冒，需要卧床休息
几天。你给老师写了假条，要求请病假三天。请假期间所缺功课，返校后定将努力补上。
    Mr Lin,
    I'm seriously ill today and can't go to school.I've caught a cold because I swam with some of my classmates yesterday.
    This morning I had a headache.After taking my temperature,my mother found that I had a high fever.So she took me to see 
a doctor.Thedoctor said that I had caught a bad cold and advised me to stay in bed for some days.
    So I'm writing to ask for sick leave for three days.As for the lessons to be missed during my absence,I will do my best 
to make themup as soon as I get back from leave.
                                                Your student Li Li
    １４）按下列提示写一个英语证明。
    李丽，北京一中高三学生，女（female），现年１７岁，数学成绩突出，英语口语和笔头均有所长。曾参加北京市和全国的数学竞赛，均
获第一名。现在她被选为中国队成员，将参加在德国举行的中学生国际奥林匹克数学竞赛。你以该校校长的名义，用英语写一篇简短的证明，
证明以上情况，以报名参加竞赛。日期为１９９５年３月１５日。
                                                 March 15 , 1995
    Dear Sir,
    Li Li,female,aged 17,is a student of Senior Grade 3 of Beijing No.1 Middle School.She is good at maths and has a good kn
owledge bothin spoken English and in written English.She has taken first placesin the maths Competitions for high school stu
dents in Beijing and inthe country as well.
    Now she has been chosen as a member of the Chinese team to joinin the International Olympic Maths Competition for High S
chool Students which will be held in Germany this year.
                                        Yours Sincerely,
                                                        Zhang Hui
                       (Headmaster of Beijing No.1 Middle School)
    １５）假如你名叫傅涛，从《中国日报》上看到北京某公司招聘一名英文秘书的启示。你根据启示写封简短的应聘信，寄北京１２３４信
箱，说明你的简历，并请经理考虑予以答复：
    １．姓名：傅涛
    ２．年龄：２５岁
    ３．学历：浙江大学英语系毕业，英语口语流利
    ４．工作经历：当了四年英语导游
    ５．通讯处：杭州８２６信箱
    ６．写信时间：１９９５年３月２６日
                                                      P.O.Box 826
                                                      Hangzhou
                                                      March 26,1995
    P.O.Box 1234
    Beijing
    Dear manager,
    I learned from China Daily that your company is looking for a secretary who is fluent in English.I would like to apply f
or the post.
    My name is Fu Tao,and I am 25.I've been working as an English guide since I graduated front the English Department of Zh
ejiang University four years ago.I am hard-working,and I seek a position more challenging and with more opportunities than m
y current one.Thank youfor your consideration.
                                              Faithfully Yours
                                                        Fu Tao
    １６）以抽烟有害为题，写一篇短文。内容须包括：
    １．列举抽烟现状：抽烟者多为青年人，甚至中学生也抽烟，在中国吸烟者约占人口的４５％。
    ２．分析抽烟原因：有的认为是乐趣，有的认为可以提神、醒脑（refresh oneself）。
    ３．叙述抽烟害处：坏习惯，有害健康，可致多种疾病，浪费，甚至可以引起火灾。
    ４．劝告不要抽烟，不抽烟者别学抽烟。
    If you look in some public places,you will see that most smokersare young people,even middle school students.It is said 
that in China smokers number about 45 percent of the population.
    Why do so many people smoke?Some think that smoking is a pleasure.Some believe that they can refresh themselves by smoki
ng.
    In fact,smoking is a bad habit.It does great harm to people's health.Studies of smoking show that many.kinds of diseases
 are relatedto smoking.Smoking itself is a waste.It costs one so much money.Besides,many fires are often caused by careless 
smokers.
    Today,more and more people all over the world have begun to giveup smoking.If you are not a smoker.don't start!
    
    
    
 
